I am Al-Nasir Salah al-Din born in 1137 in
Tikrit, current day Iraq. I am a Muslim military
and political leader who led Islamic forces
during the Crusades. My greatest triumph over
the Crusaders came at the Battle of Hattin
in 1187, which paved the way for Islamic re-conquest
of Jerusalem and other Holy Land cities in
the Near East.
I rose rapidly within Muslim society and joined
three campaigns into Egypt and became head
of the military expeditionary forces in 1169.
I participated in stabilizing the political
scene in Egypt. I did the same in Syria, Damascus,
and Yemen which turned the military balance
of power in my favor by uniting a great number
of unruly forces and employing improved military
techniques. I fought battles against England’s
King Richard I armies leading to a truce that
allowed for continued Muslim regional recontrol.
In 1187, I was able to throw my full strength
into the struggle with Crusader kingdoms.
I trapped and destroyed in one blow an army
of Crusaders at Hattin, northern Palestine.
So great were the losses in the ranks of the
Crusaders in Hattin that the Muslims quickly
overrun nearly the entire kingdom of Jerusalem.
Acre, Toron, Beirut, Sidon, Nazareth, Caesarea,
Nablus, Yafo, and Ascalon fell within three
months. The most disastrous blow to Crusaders
came on 1187, when Jerusalem, holy to both
Muslim and Christian alike, surrendered to
my army after 88 years in the hands of the
Franks. I never forgot the slaughter of Muslims
by Crusaders in Jerusalem in 1099, but I agreed
to let them purchase their freedom provided
that the Christian defenders left the Muslim
inhabitants unmolested.
I died of a fever on 1193. I gave away my
great wealth to my poor subjects, leaving
nothing to pay for my funeral. My reputation
for generosity, religiosity, and commitment
to the higher principles of a holy war have
been idealized by Muslim sources and by many
Westerners. I unified people from many ethnicities
to defend their right to coexist and I hope
their right to live in dignity is preserved
to this day.